# README.md

# Data Source

https://oehha.ca.gov/calenviroscreen/report/calenviroscreen-40

# Data Overview


The PriorityPopulations2022CES4.gdb file contains spatial data identifying disadvantaged communities and low-income communities for the purposes of California Climate Investments, consistent with the release of CalEnviroScreen 4.0 and CalEPA Disadvantaged Communities designations.  This update contains new and categorical changes and uses a new dataset to update the existing methodology.

## Priority Populations
Senate Bill (SB) 535 (De León, Chapter 830, Statutes of 2012) directs State and local agencies to make investments that benefit California's disadvantaged communities.  The bill directs the California Environmental Protection Agency (CalEPA) to identify disadvantaged communities for the purposes of these investments based on geographic, socio-economic, public health, and environmental hazard criteria.

Assembly Bill (AB) 1550 (Gomez, Chapter 369, Statutes of 2016), increased the percentage of funds for projects located in disadvantaged communities from 10 to 25 percent and added a requirement for an additional 10 percent of funds to be invested in low-income communities or low-income households, as defined in the bill.

## CalEnviroScreen
CalEnviroScreen (CES) is a screening methodology developed by the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) to identify California communities that are disproportionately burdened by multiple sources of pollution.  CalEPA classified census tracts in the top 25th percentile of cumulative CES scores as disadvantaged communities and includes tribal census areas categorized as disadvantaged communities throughout the State.

In October 2021, OEHHA released CES version 4.0, CalEPA released a corresponding list of disadvantaged communities for the purpose of SB 535 and AB-1550 investments in May 2022.

## Note on Tribal Areas
Tribal census areas intersect with one or more census tracts.  More than one tribal land area may intersect with a single census tract.  Tribal areas may be wholly within a single census tract or may be partially within more than one census tract.  A tribe may have a single land area represented or may be a multipart feature.
 
## Revision Log
In May 2022, CalEPA identified two census tracts not designated as disadvantaged community that were prior disadvantaged community census tracts for CES version 3.0.  These census tracts, 6059052404 and 6037980015 are now designated as disadvantaged community for this version CES 4.0 and surrounding buffers have been adjusted to reflect this change in designation.

## Further Information
Information on California Climate Investments benefiting priority populations is available at:  www.arb.ca.gov/cci-communityinvestments.

Information on CES version 4.0 is available at:  https://oehha.ca.gov/calenviroscreen/report/calenviroscreen-40

Identification of SB 535 Disadvantaged Communities Designation can be found at: https://calepa.ca.gov/envjustice/ghginvest/

The California Air Resources Board Climate Investments Branch can be contacted at:  GGRFProgram@arb.ca.gov

Previous CES 3.0 Priority Populations map and information can be found at:
https://webmaps.arb.ca.gov/PriorityPopulations3/

# Data Dictionary

Table: priority_populations_ces4

| Data Field	    | Definition |
|-------------------|------------|
| OBJECTID_1	    | Data identifier, automatically generated by ArcGIS (Hidden) |
| Shape	            | Data geometry type, automatically generated by ArcGIS (Hidden) |
| Census Tract	    | Census tract number based on 2016 Census data versus 2010 census data CES version 4.0 uses.  For CCI, 2016 census data linework was used for increased land area coverage and eliminate gaps.  Designations for each tract number remain the same including overall shape, area, & spatial consistency.|
| | DAC	        Identifies a disadvantaged communities, based on CES version 4.0 and CalEPA disadvantaged communities identification, which includes tribal census tracts as disadvantaged communities.|
| | LowIncome	    Identifies low-income communities, based on California Department of Housing and Community Development's Revised 2021 State Income Limits (December 2021) and Federal 2015-2019 American Community Survey data. |
| BufferLowIncome	| Identifies low-income communities within ½ mile of a disadvantaged communities, based on the DAC and LowIncome definitions defined above. |
| BufferLIH	        | Identifies low-income households (LIH) within non-designated ‘regular’ census tracts within ½ mile of a disadvantaged community.  Note that low-income households statewide are also priority populations. |
| Nondesignated	    | Census tract not identified as a priority population. Display	Identifies priority populations for symbology purposes where: |
| | 0 = No priority population |
| | 1 = Disadvantaged communities |
| | 2 = Disadvantaged community and low-income community |
| | 3 = Low-income community |
| | 4 = Low-income community within ½ mile of disadvantaged community |
| | 5 = Potential low-income households within ½ mile of disadvantaged community within non-designated census tracts.  Low-income households also qualify anywhere within the State.|
