# README.md

# Data Source
https://data.ca.gov/dataset/california-air-resources-board-gis-datasets

# Data Overview

Air Districts are designated pursuant to federal and state statute. Air districts identify the local and regional authorities who have primary responsibility for control of air pollution from sources that are not motor vehicles. (Motor vehicles are the responsibility of the state Air Resources Board.)

Air Basins are designated pursuant to California statute and regulation. Air Basins identify regions of similar meteorological and geographic conditions and consideration for political boundary lines, and are related to air pollution and its transport.

# Data Description

The California Air Districts layer is a polygon shapefile coverage representing the California air pollution control and air quality management districts, as defined in federal and state law. See 40 CFR, Chapter I Section 81, et seq., and California Health and Safety Code, Section 40000 et seq. Shapefile coverage. This data layer shows the air district boundaries and their names as of March 2004.

The California Air Basins layer is a polygon shapefile coverage representing the 15 California air basins, as defined in state statute and regulation. See the California Health and Safety Code, Section 39606 et seq. and California Code of Regulations, Title 17, Section 60100 et seq.

# Data Dictionary

Table: ca_air_districts

| Data Field | Definition |
|------------|------------|
| ogc_fid | OGC FID (Autogenerated) |
| caada_id | District ID |
| name | District Name |
| shape_leng | Shape Perimeter in Square Meters |
| shape_area | Area in Square Meters |
| dis | District Name Abbreviation |
| geom | Geometry |

Table: ca_air_basins

| Data Field | Definition |
|------------|------------|
| ogc_fid | OGC FID (Autogenerated) |
| caada_id | District ID |
| name | District Name |
| shape_leng | Shape Perimeter in Square Meters |
| shape_area | Area in Square Meters |
| ab | Air Boundary Abbreviation |
| geom | Geometry |
